yuzu Progress Report - October 2021 (#302)
yuzu-emu/yuzu-emu.github.io: site/content/entry/yuzu-progress-report-oct-2021/index.md

Following the lead from this initial research, Blinkhawk found the problem and submitted a patch that 
[improves the performance of the backtracking algorithm](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7262) used by the shader cache to find the handlers of a bindless texture.

{{< single-title-imgs
	"Old school minigames are the best (Mario Party Superstars)"
	"mpsbug.png"
	"mpsfix.png"
>}}

yuzu’s window can be freely resized, but users may want some presets to return things to accurate 16:9 proportions.
In the past we offered 720p and 1080p options, but now epicboy [adds a 900p option](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7158), useful for both people with 1080p displays 
wanting some free space on their screen, and for getting a 1:1 ratio on 3D games that render natively at 1600x900.

{{< imgs
	"./size.png|A simple way to make good use of nearest neighbour"
>}}

Blinkhawk has been investigating an issue affecting `Catherine: Full Body`, `Hyrule Warriors: Definitive Edition`, and an unknown number of other games. 

NVN, the graphics API most Nintendo Switch games use, will skip [fences](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.2-extensions/man/html/VkFence.html) (ways to 

> synchronice rendering)  if a certain amount of time has passed. This is a sensical design choice on native hardware, where a long wait could mean a 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
synchronize rendering)  if a certain amount of time has passed. This is a sensical design choice on native hardware, where a long wait could mean a 
```

[TDR](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timeout_Detection_and_Recovery) from a malfunctioning game or faulty hardware.
In the emulator, on the other hand, long wait times can be caused by shaders being built, textures being downloaded or uploaded, background processes hogging the system, etc.

If those delays are not taken into consideration, games can experience graphical glitches and bad frame pacing. The solution is 
[forcing the GPU to wait](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7187) until the system responds with all tasks finished.

{{< single-title-imgs
	"Almost a Nice Boat protagonist (Catherine: Full Body)"
	"catbug.png"
	"catfix.png"
>}}

[vonchenplus](https://github.com/vonchenplus) is back with more fixes! This time a couple of stubs helping in-game stability or rendering.

> [Stubbing `IHOSBinderDriver::TransactParcel` and `GetBufferHistory`](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7184) help to boot `Luigi’s Mansion 3`, which is notorious to 
> refuse to load at random. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Stubbing `IHOSBinderDriver::TransactParcel` and `GetBufferHistory`](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7184) help to boot `Luigi’s Mansion 3`, which is notorious for
refusing to load at random. 
```

> While this helps mitigate the issues, they are not fully solved. It seems the small delay introduced by shader building can affect the stability of this game too. We’re 
> investigating this issue as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While this helps mitigate the issues, they are not fully solved. It seems the small delay introduced by shader building can affect the stability of this game too. We need to investigate this issue further.
```

## UI changes

On the way to achieve better high DPI support, [Morph](https://github.com/Morph1984) [updated the version of Qt](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7122) used by yuzu.
This will allow in the near future to finally have legible UI elements on high DPI settings.

MightyCreak has arrived with several internal changes, most helping with the build process of yuzu.
One of them is [enabling mouse cursor auto-hide by default](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7174), a very welcome quality of life change, especially now that more users 
will be playing their games in fullscreen.
Thanks!

Linux gamepad users will no longer have to periodically tap their mouse to avoid the screensaver from taking over their screens! 
toastUnlimited [properly disabled the screensaver while running yuzu](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6702).

[Moonlacer](https://github.com/Moonlacer) continues polishing the text strings in the UI, this time helping new users 
[understand what our `NVDEC` (video decoding) options do](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7165).

Some users tend to think that NVDEC means that video decoding will only work on Nvidia GPUs, this is not the case.

> NVDEC is the name of the module in the Nintendo Switch, which uses the Tegra X1, an Nvidia SoC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NVDEC is the name of the module in the Nintendo Switch, which uses the Tegra X1, an Nvidia SoC (System on a Chip).
```

This SoC uses the NVDEC module to decode videos, and the work yuzu has to do is emulate it to work on any compatible system, including systems without Nvidia GPUs on them. 
We have a full explanation [here](https://yuzu-emu.org/entry/yuzu-nvdec-emulation/).

So, for the sake of clarity, the options were renamed to better convey the intended result:

- `No Video Output` will result in a black screen every time a video wants to render, nothing is displayed, no fun.
- `CPU Video Decoding` means processing videos using the CPU. This can be useful for AMD Windows users, since the AMD driver is notorious for having bad VP9 video decoding 
performance on Vega and newer GPU series, and using the CPU to render could be both faster and more accurate.
- `GPU Video Decoding` means actually using the GPU's decoding capabilities to process videos. This is considerably faster than CPU decoding and is the default option. If a video 
format is not compatible with the user’s GPU, yuzu’s NVDEC emulation will automatically fallback to CPU decoding.

> For some time we were wondering why the Switch had an open spot on their language selection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For some time we were wondering why the Switch had an open spot in its language selection.
```

> For some time we were wondering why the Switch had an open spot in its language selection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For some time, we were wondering why the Switch had an open spot in its language selection.
```

Turns out, with the release of `Mario Party Superstars`, Nintendo added support for Brazilian Portuguese!

> Morph [rushed to add support for it on yuzu](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7244).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Morph [rushed to add support for it in yuzu](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7244).
```

> Our game language selection menu can be found on `Emulation > Configure… > System > System > Language`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our game language selection menu can be found at `Emulation > Configure… > System > System > Language`.
```

On the other hand, particular games like `Astral Chain` should not be downsampled, as they already use 3840x2160 textures. 
Trying high resolution multipliers will result in your VRAM not being very happy.

We strongly recommend using Vulkan for downsampling as VRAM use will be considerably lower compared to OpenGL.

Let’s move on to the second option, `Window Adapting Filter`.

When you have to display on a different resolution as your rendering, you need some way of deciding which pixels will be shown in the final result, filters are used for that.

At the moment yuzu offers 6 filtering options, each recommended for different scenarios, and with different performance costs. We plan to expand this section in the future, 
adding sliders to let users customize the filters to their own tastes.
And yes, on GPU limited scenarios, the filter in use can affect framerate.

{{< imgs
	"./filters.png|Tested on Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, filtering ain't free!"
>}}

While an integrated GPU will suffer the performance cost, even a low end dedicated card will power through with ease.

Here are some recommendations and comparisons of all current options against the default bilinear.

> `Nearest Neighbour` is ideal for pixel art style games like `UNDERTALE` or `OCTOPATH TRAVELER`, it can also provide the best results when the game’s rendering resolution 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Nearest Neighbor` is ideal for pixel art style games like `UNDERTALE` or `OCTOPATH TRAVELER`, it can also provide the best results when the game’s rendering resolution 
```

matches the window or display’s resolution. Has the lowest performance cost of all options.

{{< single-title-imgs-compare
	"OCTOPATH TRAVELER (Bilinear Vs. Nearest Neighbour)"
	"./otbilinear.png"
	"./otnearest.png"
>}}

> `Bilinear` is our combat tested default option, very good for downsampling and like nearest neightbour, it has the lowest performance cost, it’s a great all-rounder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Bilinear` is our combat tested default option. It's very good for downsampling and like `Nearest Neighbor`, it has a very low performance cost. It’s a great all-rounder.
```
You stated that Nearest Neighbor has the "lowest performance cost", but two filters can't have the "lowest". Changed this one to say "lower" instead of lowest. Please let me know which one is actually the lowest.

> If you have a 1080p display, we recommend bilinear for a 2X resolution multiplier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have a 1080p display, we recommend `Bilinear` with a 2X resolution multiplier.
```

`Bicubic` can produce better downsampling results than bilinear, but at a slightly higher performance cost. We recommend it for 2X or 3X multipliers on 1080p displays.

{{< single-title-imgs-compare
	"The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild (Bilinear Vs. Bicubic)"
	"./botwbilinear.png"
	"./botwbicubic.png"
>}}

> `Gaussian` is intended for extreme cases, when the user wants to test a very high multiplier, it also has a high performance cost. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Gaussian` is intended for extreme cases, like when the user wants to test a very high multiplier. It also has a high performance cost. 
```

> When very high values are used, the image can, ironically, start to become pixelated again, the gaussian blur produced by this filter will help provide a more pleasant image. 
> Recommended for 4X to 6X multipliers on 1080p displays.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When very high values are used, the image can, ironically, start to become pixelated again. The gaussian blur produced by this filter will help provide a more pleasant image. 
Recommended for 4X to 6X multipliers on 1080p displays.
```

{{< single-title-imgs-compare
	"Metroid Dread (Bilinear Vs. Gaussian)"
	"./dreadbilinear.png"
	"./dreadgaussian.png"
>}}

> `Scaleforce` was invented by BreadFish, it’s a great downsampling filter for 3D games and a fine upsampling filter for 2D games, while also keeping a moderate performance 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Scaleforce` was invented by BreadFish. It is a great downsampling filter for 3D games and a fine upsampling filter for 2D games, while also only requiring a moderate performance 
```

cost. A true jack of all trades.

{{< single-title-imgs-compare
	"OCTOPATH TRAVELER (Bilinear Vs. Scaleforce)"
	"./otbilinear.png"
	"./otscaleforce.png"
>}}

> `AMD Fidelity FX™ Super Resolution`, or FSR for short, is [in AMD’s own words](https://github.com/GPUOpen-Effects/FidelityFX-FSR) `“...an open source, high-quality solution 
> for producing high resolution frames from lower resolution inputs.”`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`AMD Fidelity FX™ Super Resolution`, or FSR for short, is [in AMD’s own words](https://github.com/GPUOpen-Effects/FidelityFX-FSR) “...an open source, high-quality solution 
for producing high resolution frames from lower resolution inputs.”
```

This means that it is particularly useful for low-end users trying to restore some of the missing details lost when upsampling a game to gain performance. 

> It is NOT recommended for downsampling, as the output resolution is used as part of the process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is NOT recommended for downsampling, as the output resolution is used as part of the process. A perfect pick for people forced to run 0.5X or 0.75X multipliers for performance reasons.
```

{{< single-title-imgs-compare
	"Super Mario Odyssey (1X Bilinear Vs. 0.75X FSR)"
	"./smo1xbilinear.png"
	"./smo075xfsr.png"
>}}

> Great at regaining lost detail, a perfect pick for people forced to run 0.5X or 0.75X multipliers for performance reasons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

If the user tries FSR while downsampling, they ***will be reducing image quality*** and will end up only seeing the sharpening aspect of the filter, negating any advantage of 
increasing the rendering resolution while getting the full performance cost of it.

{{< single-title-imgs-compare
	"The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening (2X Bilinear Vs. 2X FSR on a 1080p display)"
	"./zlabilinearbad.png"
	"./zlafsrbad.png"
>}}

So, in short, if the rendering resolution is *higher* than the display’s resolution, FSR should be avoided.

> If the rendering resolution is *equal or lower* than the display’s resolution, FSR is an excellent shader based filtering option, but with the highest performance cost on the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the rendering resolution is *equal or lower* than the display’s resolution, FSR is an excellent shader-based filtering option, but with the highest performance cost on the 
```

list.

> As a way to cheat around this limitation, AMD and Nvidia Windows users can fake higher display resolutions with the use of 
> [Virtual Super Resolution](https://www.amd.com/en/support/kb/faq/dh2-010) and [Dynamic Super Resolution](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/geforce/technologies/dsr/technology/) 
> respectively.
> This way, for example, a 1080p display can fake a 2160p (4K) maximum resolution, giving FSR a lot more information to play with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a way to cheat around this limitation, AMD and NVIDIA Windows users can fake higher display resolutions with the use of 
[Virtual Super Resolution](https://www.amd.com/en/support/kb/faq/dh2-010) and [Dynamic Super Resolution](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/geforce/technologies/dsr/technology/) 
respectively.
This way, for example, a 1080p display can fake a 2160p (4K) maximum resolution, giving FSR a lot more information to play with.
```

{{< single-title-imgs-compare
	"The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening (2X Bilinear Vs. 2X FSR on a 4K display)"
	"./zlabilineargood.png"
	"./zlafsrgood.png"
>}}

Finally our current last option, `Anti-Aliasing Method`. 

> Pixels are almost squares, and squares don’t do a great job at displaying curves. Anti-aliasing methods are used to smooth out this undesired effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pixels are almost squares and squares aren't great for displaying curves. Anti-aliasing methods are used to smooth out this undesired effect.
```

At the moment we only offer [FXAA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fast_approximate_anti-aliasing), which can help reduce the excessive sharpening shown when using FSR.
In the near future, we plan to add more options like [MLAA/SMAA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morphological_antialiasing)

{{< single-title-imgs-compare
	"Luigi's Mansion 3 (FSR Vs. FSR + FXAA, both on a 4K display)"
	"./lm3fsr.png"
	"./lm3fxaa.png"
>}}

Both the filters and anti-aliasing options can be changed while in-game using the buttons on the bottom left of yuzu’s window. 
Changing the resolution multiplier in-game is not possible at the moment.

> As an additional note, A.R.T. also reimplements our `Anisotropic Filtering`!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an additional note, `A.R.T.` also reimplements our `Anisotropic Filtering`!
```

This option can be accessed from the Advanced tab in the graphics settings.
In the past we recommended skipping this option as not all games are particularly fond of forcing values higher than they specified, but this new implementation is smarter, 
avoiding previous drawbacks.

At a low performance cost, it will increase the quality of textures at oblique angles, particularly ground textures, most noticeable in first and third person view games.
It should now be safe to set at 16x and forget about it.

{{< single-title-imgs-compare

> 	"Pokémon Sword (default Anisotropic Filtering Vs. 16X)"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	"Pokémon Sword (default Vs. 16X Anisotropic Filtering)"
```

	"./pksw1x.png"
	"./pksw16x.png"
>}}

> Last detail, AMD users should check that [Radeon Image Sharpening](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wTh_O9BZlGc) is disabled before using the scaler, as it can affect the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One last note, AMD users should ensure that [Radeon Image Sharpening](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wTh_O9BZlGc) is disabled before using the scaler, as it can affect the 
```

quality of some filters, especially FSR which includes its own sharpening already.

> At the moment of writing this article, the feature remains in Early Access for testing and regressions finding, but be sure that it won’t take long to be merged into Mainline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the moment of writing this article, the feature remains in [Early Access](https://yuzu-emu.org/help/early-access/) for testing and regression finding, but be sure that it won’t take long to be merged into [Mainline](https://yuzu-emu.org/downloads/).
```

> Check the progress in the pull request previously listed, code reviewing is usually the main reason for delays on merging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check the progress in the pull request previously listed, code review is usually the main reason for delays on merging.
```

## Graphical and general bugfixes

> `Metroid Dread` has been a very important release both for the series and for the console, giving us the first main entry in years.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Metroid Dread` has been a very important release both for the series and for the console, giving us the first main entry for the series in years.
```

This game is heavily optimized and well polished all around, part of that is thanks to using very clever tricks to render. 

> Dread doesn’t shy away from using pre-rendered videos for backgrounds, displays, manuals and the intro menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dread doesn’t shy away from using pre-rendered videos for backgrounds, displays, manuals, and the intro menu.
```

Such videos were using an [unsupported frame format, `RGBX8`](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7138), which epicboy implemented.

{{< single-title-imgs
	"There's no need to introduce more dread into this game (Metroid Dread)"
	"dreadbug.png"
	"dreadfix.png"
>}}

While this solves the rendering of a single video on screen, some areas of the game can play multiple streams simultaneously, causing glitches on screen.

> yuzu’s decoding needs to be improved to consider those cases, something we’re working on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
yuzu’s decoding needs to be improved to handle those cases, something we’re still working on.
```

> While Blinkhawk was working on Project A.R.T, he also [doubled the counter of cached pages in the rasterizer](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7127).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While Blinkhawk was working on `Project A.R.T`, he also [doubled the counter of cached pages in the rasterizer](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7127).
```

yuzu uses these counters to keep track of the number of GPU objects stored in a cache within a CPU page.
Previously, this counter would account for pages whose addresses were up to a size of 38 bits.
Some games, however, can use memory addresses of 39 bits of size.

By doubling the counter, the rasterizer can effectively keep track of these addresses now, allowing certain games that did not work with the old counter to boot, such as 
`Final Fantasy X`.

{{< imgs
	"./ffx.png|Listen to my story, the story of the worst laugh ever recorded (FINAL FANTASY X/X-2 HD Remaster)"
>}}

epicboy investigated the graphical issues present in `Mario Party Superstars`.
Following the lead from this initial research, Blinkhawk found the problem and submitted a patch that 
[improves the performance of the backtracking algorithm](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7262) used by the shader cache to find the handlers of a bindless texture.

{{< single-title-imgs

> 	"Oldschool minigames are the best (Mario Party Superstars)"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	"Old school minigames are the best (Mario Party Superstars)"
```

	"mpsbug.png"
	"mpsfix.png"
>}}

yuzu’s window can be freely resized, but users may want some presets to return things to accurate 16:9 proportions.
In the past we offered 720p and 1080p options, but now epicboy [adds a 900p option](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7158), useful for both people with 1080p displays 
wanting some free space on their screen, and for getting a 1:1 ratio on 3D games that render natively at 1600x900.

{{< imgs
	"./size.png|A simple way to make good use of nearest neighbour"
>}}

> Blinkhawk has been investigating an issue affecting `Catherine: Full Body`, `Hyrule Warriors: Definitive Edition` and an unknown number of other games. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Blinkhawk has been investigating an issue affecting `Catherine: Full Body`, `Hyrule Warriors: Definitive Edition`, and an unknown number of other games. 
```

NVN, the graphics API most Nintendo Switch games use, will skip [fences](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.2-extensions/man/html/VkFence.html) (ways to 
synchronice rendering)  if a certain amount of time has passed. This is a sensical design choice on native hardware, where a long wait could mean a 
[TDR](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timeout_Detection_and_Recovery) from a malfunctioning game or faulty hardware.

> On the emulator, on the other hand, long wait times can be caused by shaders being built, textures being downloaded or uploaded, background processes hogging the system, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the emulator, on the other hand, long wait times can be caused by shaders being built, textures being downloaded or uploaded, background processes hogging the system, etc.
```

If those delays are not taken into consideration, games can experience graphical glitches and bad frame pacing. The solution is 
[forcing the GPU to wait](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7187) until the system responds with all tasks finished.

{{< single-title-imgs
	"Almost a Nice Boat protagonist (Catherine: Full Body)"
	"catbug.png"
	"catfix.png"
>}}

> [vonchenplus](https://github.com/vonchenplus) is back with more fixes! This time a couple of stubs helping in game stability or rendering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[vonchenplus](https://github.com/vonchenplus) is back with more fixes! This time a couple of stubs helping in-game stability or rendering.
```

> [Stubbing `IHOSBinderDriver::TransactParcel` and `GetBufferHistory`](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7184) help boot `Luigi’s Mansion 3` up, which is notorious to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Stubbing `IHOSBinderDriver::TransactParcel` and `GetBufferHistory`](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7184) help to boot `Luigi’s Mansion 3`, which is notorious to 
```

refuse to load at random. 

> While this helps mitigate the issues, they are not fully solved, it seems the small delay introduced by shader building can affect the stability of the game too, we’re 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While this helps mitigate the issues, they are not fully solved. It seems the small delay introduced by shader building can affect the stability of this game too. We’re 
```

> investigating.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
investigating this issue as well.
```

To avoid the crash, he made it so that [yuzu now resizes big profile pictures](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7246) to fit the allowed dimensions instead.

On Linux, opening the Configuration Window and pressing the `OK` button would lead consistently to a crash.
[MightyCreak](https://github.com/MightyCreak) found the cause of this problem and submitted a patch to [solve it](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7186).

Another linux-only crash would happen when inputting text on `The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild`.
Morph investigated the problem and found it was caused by an out-of-bounds access in the string buffer, so 
[he added the necessary checks](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7172) to prevent it.

## UI changes

On the way to achieve better high DPI support, [Morph](https://github.com/Morph1984) [updated the version of Qt](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7122) used by yuzu.
This will allow in the near future to finally have legible UI elements on high DPI settings.

MightyCreak has arrived with several internal changes, most helping with the build process of yuzu.

> One of them is [enabling mouse cursor auto-hide by default](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7174), a very welcome quality of life change, specially now that more users 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of them is [enabling mouse cursor auto-hide by default](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7174), a very welcome quality of life change, especially now that more users 
```

> will be playing their games on fullscreen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will be playing their games in fullscreen.
```

Thanks!

Linux gamepad users will no longer have to periodically tap their mouse to avoid the screensaver from taking over their screens! 
toastUnlimited [properly disabled the screensaver while running yuzu](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/6702).

> [Moonlacer](https://github.com/Moonlacer) continues polishing the text strings on the UI, this time helping new users 
> [understand what our `NVDEC` (video decoding) options do](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7165).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Moonlacer](https://github.com/Moonlacer) continues polishing the text strings in the UI, this time helping new users 
[understand what our `NVDEC` (video decoding) options do](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7165).
```

Some users tend to think that NVDEC means that video decoding will only work on Nvidia GPUs, this is not the case.
NVDEC is the name of the module in the Nintendo Switch, which uses the Tegra X1, an Nvidia SoC.
This SoC uses the NVDEC module to decode videos, and the work yuzu has to do is emulate it to work on any compatible system, including systems without Nvidia GPUs on them. 
We have a full explanation [here](https://yuzu-emu.org/entry/yuzu-nvdec-emulation/).

> So, for the sake of clarity, the options were renamed to more easily understand what’s the intended result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So, for the sake of clarity, the options were renamed to better convey the intended result:
```

- `No Video Output` will result in a black screen every time a video wants to render, nothing is displayed, no fun.

> - `CPU Video Decoding` means processing videos using the CPU, this can be useful for AMD Windows users, since the AMD driver is notorious for having bad VP9 video decoding 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `CPU Video Decoding` means processing videos using the CPU. This can be useful for AMD Windows users, since the AMD driver is notorious for having bad VP9 video decoding 
```

performance on Vega and newer GPU series, and using the CPU to render could be both faster and more accurate.

> - `GPU Video Decoding` means actually using the GPUs decoding capabilities to process videos, this is considerably faster than CPU decoding and is the default option. If a video 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `GPU Video Decoding` means actually using the GPU's decoding capabilities to process videos. This is considerably faster than CPU decoding and is the default option. If a video 
```

format is not compatible with the user’s GPU, yuzu’s NVDEC emulation will automatically fallback to CPU decoding.

For some time we were wondering why the Switch had an open spot on their language selection.
Turns out, with the release of `Mario Party Superstars`, Nintendo added support for Brazilian Portuguese!
Morph [rushed to add support for it on yuzu](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7244).
Our game language selection menu can be found on `Emulation > Configure… > System > System > Language`.
Jogo bonito on your gameplay sessions!

The text on the TAS configuration window looked cramped, so [Behunin](https://github.com/behunin) edited the 
[UI file and reformatted the text](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7147) to make it easier to read.

> Later, [Moonlacer](https://github.com/Moonlacer) added to these changes by [fixing some grammar nits and adding an hyperlink](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7197) that 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Later, [Moonlacer](https://github.com/Moonlacer) added to these changes by [fixing some grammar nits and adding a hyperlink](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7197) that 
```

> links to the guide in our site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
links to the guide on our site.
```

{{< single-title-imgs
	" "
	"tasbug.png"
	"tasfix.png"
>}}

Moonlacer also [fixed a problem with the per-game configuration window](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7223), where scaling the monitor over 100% would squash the 
window.

{{< single-title-imgs
	" "
	"csbug.png"
	"csfix.png"
>}}

## Input changes

When [german77](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7142) added 
[auto-centering support all the way back in July](https://yuzu-emu.org/entry/yuzu-progress-report-jul-2021/#input-changes), the range of the new center wasn’t considered, 
making the analog sticks overpass 100% in a direction while failing to reach it in the opposite way.
[Scaling the value of the range depending on the offset applied when centering](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7142) solves this issue.

## Future projects

> With the resolution scaler finished, our GPU devs got space to breathe, and they can focus back on work that was left for later.
> `Project Y.F.C` is an example.
> In Blinkhawk’s words, “there'll be Chicken Nuggets for everyone soon, a.k.a. it will cover many different things.”
> 
> {{< imgs
> 	"./wol.png|Lifelight intensifies (Super Smash Bros. Ultimate)"
> >}}
> 
> `Project Gaia` is advancing very well, and `Project Kraken` [is out](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7255) but didn’t make it in time for this progress report, so we 
> will focus on it next time.
> 
> That’s all folks! Thank you so much for your kind attention, and see you next month!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the resolution scaler finished, our GPU devs have space to breathe, and they can focus back on work that was reserved for later.
`Project Y.F.C` is an example.
In Blinkhawk’s words, “there'll be Chicken Nuggets for everyone soon, a.k.a. it will cover many different things.”

{{< imgs
	"./wol.png|Lifelight intensifies (Super Smash Bros. Ultimate)"
>}}

`Project Gaia` is advancing very well, and `Project Kraken` (our Input Rewrite) [is out](https://github.com/yuzu-emu/yuzu/pull/7255) but didn’t make it in time for this progress report. Don't worry, we 
will discuss it next time!

That’s all folks! Thank you so much for your attention and see you next month!
```
